{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh14980\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Introduction
\fs24 \
\
Having enjoyed engaging with media in the genre of fantasy for many years,  I have developed a few ideas on the direction I feel this genre\
should be moving towards, as well as some principles, concepts and thoughts this genre will benefit from.\
\
I understand that many writers, movie makers, and other artists might disagree with my methods and ideas; however, even if\
they have nothing to benefit from what I think and write, I am quite sure there will be at least a few of my readers who\
might agree with me, and might take the additional step of contributing in the fashion I suggest to the genre. \
\
Since this document is 
\i about 
\i0 the genre itself, I thought it appropriate to refer to relevant documents and works\
as the philosophy of fantasy. \
\
Now is a good time to define what I mean when I say \'91Fantasy\'92, before I go into the topics I will discuss in this \
document. \
\
When I say \'91Fantasy\'92, I mean the broad genre of works and art pieces that have to do with topics, subjects and items\
where the core idea, mechanic or theme are possibly only in the future / alternate history of Earth, another planet in our dimension \
universe, or in an another universe / dimension completely with no reference towards the Earth we are currently on. \
\
Since novels in the fantasy genre are of secondary interest to me as well, the reader might notice a bias \
towards novels and storytelling mediums in particular. However, the reader can be assured that the focus \
is on the genre itself, how it works, how it \'93should\'94 work, and additional thoughts.\
\
\

\fs36 Approach
\fs24 \
\
I imagine that when a person thinks of the fantastical, he/she/other might see an image in their mind; an image \
that varies from person to person. \
\
However, given my definition of fantasy, I feel I can reasonably assume that works in this genre have to do\
with the fantastical: those events, actions, people or concepts that are so far removed from our reality that\
they are thought to be amazing, wondrous and completely impossible. \
\
And now, I have already made two assumptions in one phrase: 
\b removed 
\b0 from our 
\b reality. 
\b0 This first assumptions\
mean that we assume, as a point of reference, use 
\i our
\i0  Earth; and while \'91ours\'92 is subjective enough\
to spark debate, it is reasonably clear that we all will refer to the same planet and things on the planet,\
even if what the planet means to that person will be different for each person. The second assumption\
is that what we fantasize in this genre is currently not possible, and not foreseeable in the near enough\
future to warrant an exploration in that topic. \
\
The reader might have a few questions at this point: Why worry about something that can / will never happen\
and frame rules for that thing on top of that? Also, how can you make rules about something that cannot exist?\
\
There might be several answers to the first question; mine is that the results of such exercises in thinking are\
enough for me to engage in said exercises. \
\
The answer to the second question is that by suspending disbelief for one, ( or two, three\'85) assumptions,\
and hypothetically assuming that that / those assumptions 
\i can 
\i0 ( even if they are not ) be true, a fantasist \
might successfully engage in a world or concept that, though it hinges on something that is \'93wrong\'94, can\
contain everything in it that are subject to an internally consistent set of rules and conclusions and, therefore,\
be correct. \
\
For a fantasist like me, I would like to exert enough effort to make sure, that however wild those assumptions\
are, the resulting logics and conclusions used, are those that make sense according to Earthly logic. ( for \
the primary audience would be familiar only with earthly logic and thought processes, but at this point I wonder\
how a fantasy novel written with logic and conclusions from a base assumption catering to un-earthly logic\
would work ) \
\
And to make good conclusions, one needs three things: imagination, knowledge and effort using that knowledge\
along with what has been imagined. \
\
While I am creative, the lack of eclectic knowledge in me would require an unearthly amount of effort, to the extent \
that I recognize that I need the help of others to make the optimum fantasy.\
\
The following section discusses what approach to fantasy I like, as well as the approach to research I suggest\
to fulfill the requirements of the former approach. \
\
*\
\
I like taking the route of creating assumptions, and then building upon those assumptions through\
an engine until a world is built. However, I can conceive of the possibility of multiple approaches;\
for example, one could not use an engine, and simply use a set of rules to statically come up with\
a world. \
\
I argue that the best fantasy that can be created, can only be done with an approach\
that has effective or strong:\
1) leaps of logic and conclusions made ( from the assumptions ) to form that world. \
Therefore, for my ideal fantasy, those rules, conclusions and leaps of logic should adhere to what makes\
the most sense to me ( the maker ).\
2) general approach to making those leaps and using logic. \
3) thorough knowledge and research used by the maker to make informed decisions. \
\
Note that as makers differ, so will their modes of creation; more on that later in the section \'91Content Management\
Systems\'92. \
\
As an example of an approach to creation, by far my favorite ( and hardest to accomplish ) way is\
what I call \'91Fantastical Evolution\'92; in a nutshell, it\'92s a way of creating a system of principles, that\
while working together as one engine, will enable the organic growth of a internally consistent, completely realistic\
( within the scope of the assumptions ) fantastical world from a few assumptions. By changing the principles ( the engine )  or assumptions ( the seed ),  one can \
achieve a completely different result each time. \
\
Therefore, the next question that strike me is how would such an engine be built? \
\
It would depend on the bases ( assumptions ) for 
\i that 
\i0 engine, as well as the nature of the \
principles of the engine itself.\
\
Since to create an engine that would operate as closely as whatever engine was used during the creation\
of our Earth, I need to know a lot more about our Earth so as to facilitate using Fantastical Evolution. \
( Alternatively, one could use an engine very different from that used for Earth, to purposefully achieve\
a different effect) \
\
Therefore, the requirements for a good approach would be:\
1) Enough knowledge to make sufficiently logical leaps from assumptions.\
2) Enough knowledge to make the principles needed.\
\
*\
\
Imagine, if you will, a network of nodes throughout our universe\'92s past, present and future, where each node\
is a combination of concepts known to us  ( say, culture and ingenuity ). Now, when we look at the world,\
these nodes, if they do exist, will be hard to fathom, at least for the layman / me. \
\
However, by studying certain disciplines, and being familiar with a lot more, it is possible to \
to discover these nodes, and thereby understand the genesis and creation of \'91today\'92 from the beginning \
of everything. Once discovered, they will offer a unique and wonderful insight into our world, where\
this knowledge is completely useless, for our awareness of how to operate in this world is mostly intuitive\
and does not need such complete awareness.\
\
And yet; it is precisely that knowledge which is useless in this world, that is vital to creating other worlds. \
Since knowledge and imagination are the best assets we have, combining the two creates a wonderful result,\
where the imagination is structured to become a living system that can continue to create long after the creator himself\
does not, or cannot. \
\
Therefore, since I believe that one person cannot uncover all that he needs to learn by himself, I realized \
that this would have to be a community effort, making use of different, esoteric skills sets and the capabilities of many. \
The added bonus of such an approach ( in addition to making knowledge more accessible ) is the customization\
of rules / logics according to the needs of the maker, leading to more dynamic and growth of the genre. \
\

\fs36 \
Content / Version Management System
\fs24 \
\
Finally, we come to how we might implement this idea, and possibly achieve a fantastical world\
realistic within the scope our imagination.  \
\
First, it would have be a community project. One person cannot do this alone. \
\
Second, the project would have to have a way of guiding itself, while at the same time meeting\
the needs of different makers. \
\
Third, the project\'92s content will be the canon for every fantasist who wants to educate himself and seeks to \
engage in this kind of creation; 
\i but 
\i0 the canon will be open to all for modification so everyone\
can 
\i choose 
\i0 the canon they wish to use. \
\
Therefore, I propose fellow fantasists contributing, through a Content / version Management System, to the following \
areas: \
\

\b For this world
\b0 : Tenets, concepts and logics that the contributor feels is essential for 
\i our
\i0  version of Earth to exist.\

\b For any world
\b0 : Tenets, concepts and logics  that the contributor feels is essential for 
\i any
\i0  version of a world to exist.\

\b For a world
\b0 : Tenets, concepts and logics  that the contributor feels is essential for a 
\i particular
\i0  version of a world to exist.\

\b Philosophy of Fantasy
\b0 : Tenets, concepts and logics essential to improve the philosophy of fantasy. \
\
\
- Suman Prasad Jampala}